content/v9/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Introducing v9.0
---

This page explains every feature introduced in v9.

🎨 _The examples with graphics are editable._

---

# Platform packages

While you can still import `react-spring` for the web version, you can now use
`@react-spring/web` if you'd prefer to avoid installing the wrapper package for
every other supported platform. You can use Yarn aliases to make it seamless.

```sh
yarn add react-spring@npm:@react-spring/web@9.0.0-rc.1
```

Every supported platform has its own package, which depends on `@react-spring/core`.
The `react-spring` package re-exports the package of every supported platform,
which means you can import `react-spring/native` like you could in v8.

The `react-spring/universal` module has been replaced by `@react-spring/core`.

---

# The `useTransition` rework

Learn about the new `useTransition` on the [Breaking Changes](./breaking-changes) page.

---

# Concurrent mode

Support for React's concurrent mode has been added.

Please report any issues you may find. 😇

---

# Dependency arrays

Every hook except `useChain` now supports a `deps` argument, which is an
array exactly like what `useEffect` takes.

Whenever a dependency is changed, the update will be processed and thus
the animation will be updated. But otherwise, updates are ignored when
all dependencies are unchanged.

When a dependency array is passed, the `useSpring` and `useSprings` hooks
each return an `animate` function.

```js
const [style, animate] = useSpring({ x: 0, y: 0 }, [])
useEffect(() => {
  animate({ x: 100, y: 100 })
}, [])
```

---

# The `loop` prop

Use `loop: true` to repeat an animation.

```js react-live=true
useSpring({
  loop: true,
  from: { rotateZ: 0 },
  to: { rotateZ: 180 },
})
```

## The `loop` function

Pass a function to be called after each loop. Return `true` to continue
looping, or `false` to stop.

```js react-live=true
let n = 0
useSpring({
  loop: () => 3 > n++,
  from: { x: 0 },
  to: { x: 100 },
})
```

The `loop` function can also return a `loop` object, which is described in the
next section. This is useful when you want to decide the next loop animation
right after the previous loop is finished.

## The `loop` object

Define a `loop` object to customize the loop animation separately from the
initial animation. It may contain any of the `useSpring` props. For example,
if `reverse: true` is used, the loop animation will reverse on each loop.

```js react-live=true
useSpring({
  loop: { reverse: true },
  from: { x: 0 },
  to: { x: 100 },
})
```

### Inherited props

The `loop` object is always merged into a copy of the props object it was
defined in. The following example shows a loop animation that inherits its
`config` prop.

```js react-live=true
useSpring({
  from: { x: 0 },
  config: { duration: 1000 },
  loop: {
    x: 100,
  },
})
```

⚠️ Notice how the loop doesn't run more than once. That's because some props
are **never** inherited. These props include `default`, `reset`, and `reverse`.

**To loop the animation,** try adding `reset: true` to the `loop` prop in the above
example. Alternatively, you could add `from: { x: 0 }` to get the same effect.

Lastly, try adding `config: { friction: 5 }` to the `loop` object. This overrides
the inherited `config.duration` with a springy animation.

---

# Dynamic goals

The `FrameValue` class (inherited by `SpringValue` and `Interpolation`) allows for
animations toward or from an observable `FluidValue` object. You can make any library
work like this with `react-spring` by following [this guide](https://www.npmjs.com/package/fluids#fluidvalue-example).

```js react-live=true
const { x } = useSpring({
  to: { x: 100 },
  from: { x: 0 },
  loop: { reverse: true },
})
const { rotateZ } = useSpring({
  // Works with `x` and `x.to(...)`
  rotateZ: x.to([0, 100], [0, 180]),
})
```

Try using `immediate: true` to make `rotateZ` stick to its `FluidValue` instead
of animating toward it.

The `from` prop can also be a `FluidValue`, but it only caches the `FluidValue`'s
current value when first animated and when the `reset` prop is true. In other
words, nothing will happen if the `from` value is changed during an animation.

---

# The `cancel` prop

When `true`, the `cancel` prop stops the animation of every animated value
owned by the `Controller` that receives it.

The following example never animates, because `cancel` is always true.

```js
useSpring({
  cancel: true,
  from: { x: 0 },
  to: { x: 100 },
})
```

Once the `cancel` prop turns from `true` to `false`, the declared animation
will resume or reset, depending on the given props.

### Delayed updates

The `cancel` prop even prevents delayed updates. 😎

```jsx
const [style, animate] = useSpring(() => ({ x: 0 }))

// Pass this to an element.
const onClick = () => {
  animate({ x: 100, delay: 500 })

  // Prevent the previous update. 🤣
  animate({ cancel: true })
}
```

### Specific keys

To cancel the animation of specific keys, you can pass a single key, an array of
keys, or a `(key: string) => boolean` function.

```js
// Using a single key
cancel: 'x',

// Using an array of keys
cancel: ['x', 'y'],

// Using a function
cancel: key => key !== 'x',
```

The `reset` and `immediate` props support these same types.

---

# Config props

The `config` prop existed in v8.x, but v9.x brings a few improvements.

### Partial updates

The `config` prop can now be partially updated.

```js
const { x } = useSpring({
  from: { x: 0 },
  config: { frequency: 1 },
})
useEffect(() => {
  x.start({ config: { velocity: 0 } })
  x.start({ config: { friction: 20 } })
}, [])
```

### Additions

The following props have been added:

- `frequency?: number`

  The natural frequency (in seconds), which dictates the number of bounces
  per second when no damping exists.

  When defined, `tension` is derived from this, and `friction` is derived
  from `tension` and `damping`.

- `damping?: number`

  The damping ratio, which dictates how the spring slows down.

  Set to `0` to never slow down. Set to `1` to slow down without bouncing.
  Between `0` and `1` is for you to explore.

  Only works when `frequency` is defined. Defaults to `1`.

- `round?: number`

  While animating, round to the nearest multiple of this number.
  The `from` and `to` values are never rounded, as well as any value
  passed to the `set` method of an animated value.

- `bounce?: number`

  When above zero, the spring will bounce instead of overshooting when
  exceeding its goal value.

  Its velocity is multiplied by `-1 + bounce` whenever its current value
  equals or exceeds its goal. For example, setting `bounce` to `0.5` chops
  the velocity in half on each bounce, in addition to any friction.

- `progress?: number`

  When used with `duration`, it decides how far into the easing function
  to start from. The duration itself is unaffected.

  Defaults to `0`, which means "start from the beginning".

  Setting to `1+` makes an immediate animation. Setting to `0.5` means "start
  from the middle of the easing function". Any number `>= 0` and `<= 1` makes
  sense here.

- `restVelocity?: number`

  The smallest velocity before the animation is considered to be "not moving".
  When undefined, `precision` is used instead.

---

# Default props

The `default` prop lets you set the default value of certain props defined in
the same update.

### Declarative updates

For the declarative API, this prop is `true` by default. In the following
example, the `onRest` handler is inherited by every update passed to `animate`,
except when a call has its own `onRest` prop defined.

```jsx
useSpring({
  to: async animate => { ... },
  onRest: () => { ... }
})
```

### Imperative updates

Imperative updates can use `default: true` to set default props. When an
async `to` prop is defined by an imperative update, it will inherit props from
the imperative update like this:

```jsx
useSpring({
  from: { x: 0 },
  to: async animate => {
    // The `config` prop below is inherited by
    // both objects in the `to` array.
    await animate({
      to: [{ x: 100 }, { x: 0 }],
      config: { tension: 100 },
    })
  },
})
```

Default props are inherited while an update is being processed by the internal
diffing algorithm within [`SpringValue#_merge`][merge1].

[merge1]: https://github.com/react-spring/react-spring/blob/a2210466245b09f9686cd3b5172d61f1854a7e38/packages/core/src/SpringValue.ts#L521-L800

For example, both the `ref` prop and the `animate` function will inherit
the default props defined below (in the `useSpring` props function).

```jsx
const ref = useRef()
const [{ x }, animate] = useSpring(() => ({
  x: 0,
  onRest: () => { ... },
  ref,
}))

useEffect(async () => {
  // Animate to 100 with the ref API.
  await ref.current.start({ x: 100 })
  // Animate to 0 with the function API.
  await animate({ x: 0 })
}, [])
```

### Compatible props

In the last example, only the `onRest` prop is inherited, because only some
props can have a default value.

The following props can have default values:

- `config`
- `immediate`
- `onDelayEnd`
- `onProps`
- `onStart`
- `onChange`
- `onRest`

---

# Event props

Props like `onRest` can now be defined on a per-key basis.

```jsx
useSpring({
  from: { x: 0, y: 0 },
  onRest: {
    x: () => console.log('x.onRest'),
    y: () => console.log('y.onRest'),
  },
})
```

### `batchedUpdates` support

Whenever an event prop is called, it's first wrapped with `unstable_batchedUpdates`
(exported by React), which ensures multiple `setState` calls won't cause components
to rerender more times than is necessary. This prevents several tricky edge cases.

### React to finished delays

The `onDelayEnd` prop is called for every non-cancelled update, after its
`delay` is finished. It receives a props object and the affected `SpringValue`
object.

```jsx
useSpring({
  onDelayEnd(props, spring) {
    console.log('onDelayEnd:', props, spring)
  },
})
```

### Inspect your props

The `onProps` prop is called for every update that isn't prevented.

It receives a props object and the affected `SpringValue` object.
It can be useful when debugging an animation.

The `onProps` prop is called immediately after all props have been merged into
the `animation` of the affected `SpringValue` object, but before the first
frame of an animation initiated by the props.

```jsx
useSpring({
  onProps(props, spring) {
    console.log('onProps:', {
      // Inspect the update props.
      props,
      // Inspect the animated value.
      spring,
      // Inspect the animation state.
      ...spring.animation,
    })
  },
})
```

---

# The `skipAnimation` global

When `true`, all animations are finished immediately. The `requestAnimationFrame`
loop is skipped entirely. Any `onRest` callbacks are still invoked.

```js
import { Globals } from 'react-spring'

Globals.assign({ skipAnimation: true })
```

Combine `skipAnimation` with [prefers-reduced-motion] to gracefully disable or
reduce the motion of your animations. The `react-reduce-motion` package [can help with that.](https://github.com/infiniteluke/react-reduce-motion)

[prefers-reduced-motion]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-reduced-motion

```js
import { Globals } from 'react-spring'
import { useReduceMotion } from 'react-reduce-motion'

const prefersReducedMotion = useReduceMotion()
useEffect(() => {
  Globals.assign({
    skipAnimation: prefersReducedMotion,
  })
}, [prefersReducedMotion])
```

---

# The `SpringValue` class

Imperative APIs are a great way of animating in response to events, without
the need for component state (ie: render-based updates). In this sense, the
`SpringValue` class is a welcome addition to `react-spring`.

It wraps around an `Animated` node, the type of object you passed to animated
components in v8. Now you'll be passing `SpringValue` objects, which manage
their own `Animation` state (separate from any `Controller` object).

### `new SpringValue(props)`

Create an animated value. Any type is valid, but only certain types are
actually animated.

The `props` argument can be either..

- a `to` value
- or a set of `useSpring` props.

Types that cannot be animated are basically `immediate: true` animations.
Such types include: a `boolean`, a `display` string like `"none"`, etc.

The animatable types are:

- `number`s

  ```js
  new SpringValue(0)
  ```

- `string`s with numbers

  ```js
  new SpringValue('0px 10px')
  new SpringValue('rgba(0, 0, 255, 1)')
  ```

- named colors

  ```js
  new SpringValue('red')
  ```

- and arrays of the preceding types

  ```js
  new SpringValue([0, '1em'])
  ```

## Methods

### `get(): T`

Get the current value.

```js
const value = spring.get()
```

### `set(value): this`

Set the current value, replace the `goal` value, and stop animating.

```js
spring.set(1)
```

### `update(props): this`

Add an update to the `queue` array. All updates in the `queue` are
applied at the same time.

```js
const delays = [0, 100, 300]
for (const delay of delays) {
  spring.update({ x: delay })
}
spring.start()
```

⚠️ This method may be deprecated soon.

### `start(): Promise`

Process the `queue` array and replace it with an empty array.

The returned `Promise` resolves after every animation triggered by
the `queue` array has either finished or been cancelled.

```js
await spring.start()
```

The awaited value is an `AnimationResult` object.

The `AnimationResult` type has the following properties:

- `value: T`
- `spring: SpringValue`
- `finished?: boolean`
- `cancelled?: boolean`

### `start(props): Promise`

Process the given `props` object.

The returned promise is resolved after the animation is finished or cancelled.
If a `start` call triggers no animation, the promise resolves immediately.

```js
await spring.start({ from: 0, to: 1 })
```

### `start(queue): Promise`

Process the given array of updates.

The returned promise resolves to an `AnimationResult` object whose:

- `finished` property is only `true` when every animation triggered by
  the `queue` was finished before being stopped or cancelled.

- `cancelled` property is only `false` when all updates in the `queue` were
  never cancelled.

```js
// prettier-ignore
await spring.start([
  { from: 0 },
  { to: 10 },
  { to: 20, delay: 1000 },
])
```

### `finish(): this`

Jump to the goal value immediately.

The `onStart` prop is called whenever `finish` is called before the first
frame. The `onRest` prop is called with `finished: true` as expected.

```js
spring.finish()
```

### `finish(value): this`

Jump to the given value immediately, and call the `onStart` and `onRest`
props the same way `.finish()` does.

```js
spring.finish(100)
```

Fluid values (eg: other `SpringValue` objects) can also be passed.

### `stop(): this`

Stop animating and cancel any delayed updates.

The `goal` value is replaced with the current value.

```js
spring.stop()
```

### `reset(): this`

Restart the animation using its cached `from` and `to` values.

```js
spring.reset()
```

Equivalent to a `.start({ reset: true })` call.

### `advance(dt: number): boolean`

Advance the current animation by the given `dt` (in milliseconds).

_You will probably never call this._

```js
// Advance a single frame.
spring.advance(1000 / 60)
```

### `is(phase: string): void`

Check for the given phase.

```jsx
if (spring.is('PAUSED')) {
  return
}
```

Valid phases include:

- `CREATED` The spring has never animated since being created.
- `IDLE` The spring is done animating.
- `ACTIVE` The spring is animating.
- `PAUSED` The spring was animating but is now paused.
- `DISPOSED` The spring can no longer animate.

## Properties

### `key?: string`

The name given to the `SpringValue` object by its owner.

For `Controller` objects, the `key` of each `SpringValue` is the property name
from either the `to` or `from` object prop.

When defined, the `to` prop can be an object with this `key` defined as
a property.

```js
spring.key = 'foo'
spring.start({ to: { foo: '180deg' } })
```

### `get idle(): boolean`

Returns `true` when both:

- the current phase is _anything but_ `ACTIVE`
- no async `to` prop is active

Put simply, it's `true` when not animating.

### `get goal(): T`

The end value of the current animation.

### `get velocity(): number | number[]`

The velocity of the current animation.

### `animation: Animation`

The animation descriptor.

### `queue?: SpringUpdate<T>[]`

The queue of pending updates.

Call `.start()` to flush the queue.

Commit message:

docs: unified hook api with renderprops api

content/v9/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Introducing v9.0
---

This page explains every feature introduced in v9.

🎨 _The examples with graphics are editable._

---

# Platform packages

While you can still import `react-spring` for the web version, you can now use
`@react-spring/web` if you'd prefer to avoid installing the wrapper package for
every other supported platform. You can use Yarn aliases to make it seamless.

```sh
yarn add react-spring@npm:@react-spring/web@9.0.0-rc.1
```

Every supported platform has its own package, which depends on `@react-spring/core`.
The `react-spring` package re-exports the package of every supported platform,
which means you can import `react-spring/native` like you could in v8.

The `react-spring/universal` module has been replaced by `@react-spring/core`.

---

# Unified API

In the past two major versions, the "Render Props API" and "Hooks API" were
provided by separate modules. In fact, each API had its own implementation of
the internal `Controller` class, which was bad for maintenance.

```js
// v8
import { useSpring } from 'react-spring'
import { Spring } from 'react-spring/renderprops'
```

The new version unifies these APIs into a single module!

```js
// v9
import { Spring, useSpring } from 'react-spring'
```

---

# The `useTransition` rework

Learn about the new `useTransition` on the [Breaking Changes](./breaking-changes) page.

---

# Concurrent mode

Support for React's concurrent mode has been added.

Please report any issues you may find. 😇

---

# Dependency arrays

Every hook except `useChain` now supports a `deps` argument, which is an
array exactly like what `useEffect` takes.

Whenever a dependency is changed, the update will be processed and thus
the animation will be updated. But otherwise, updates are ignored when
all dependencies are unchanged.

When a dependency array is passed, the `useSpring` and `useSprings` hooks
each return an `animate` function.

```js
const [style, animate] = useSpring({ x: 0, y: 0 }, [])
useEffect(() => {
  animate({ x: 100, y: 100 })
}, [])
```

---

# The `loop` prop

Use `loop: true` to repeat an animation.

```js react-live=true
useSpring({
  loop: true,
  from: { rotateZ: 0 },
  to: { rotateZ: 180 },
})
```

## The `loop` function

Pass a function to be called after each loop. Return `true` to continue
looping, or `false` to stop.

```js react-live=true
let n = 0
useSpring({
  loop: () => 3 > n++,
  from: { x: 0 },
  to: { x: 100 },
})
```

The `loop` function can also return a `loop` object, which is described in the
next section. This is useful when you want to decide the next loop animation
right after the previous loop is finished.

## The `loop` object

Define a `loop` object to customize the loop animation separately from the
initial animation. It may contain any of the `useSpring` props. For example,
if `reverse: true` is used, the loop animation will reverse on each loop.

```js react-live=true
useSpring({
  loop: { reverse: true },
  from: { x: 0 },
  to: { x: 100 },
})
```

### Inherited props

The `loop` object is always merged into a copy of the props object it was
defined in. The following example shows a loop animation that inherits its
`config` prop.

```js react-live=true
useSpring({
  from: { x: 0 },
  config: { duration: 1000 },
  loop: {
    x: 100,
  },
})
```

⚠️ Notice how the loop doesn't run more than once. That's because some props
are **never** inherited. These props include `default`, `reset`, and `reverse`.

**To loop the animation,** try adding `reset: true` to the `loop` prop in the above
example. Alternatively, you could add `from: { x: 0 }` to get the same effect.

Lastly, try adding `config: { friction: 5 }` to the `loop` object. This overrides
the inherited `config.duration` with a springy animation.

---

# Dynamic goals

The `FrameValue` class (inherited by `SpringValue` and `Interpolation`) allows for
animations toward or from an observable `FluidValue` object. You can make any library
work like this with `react-spring` by following [this guide](https://www.npmjs.com/package/fluids#fluidvalue-example).

```js react-live=true
const { x } = useSpring({
  to: { x: 100 },
  from: { x: 0 },
  loop: { reverse: true },
})
const { rotateZ } = useSpring({
  // Works with `x` and `x.to(...)`
  rotateZ: x.to([0, 100], [0, 180]),
})
```

Try using `immediate: true` to make `rotateZ` stick to its `FluidValue` instead
of animating toward it.

The `from` prop can also be a `FluidValue`, but it only caches the `FluidValue`'s
current value when first animated and when the `reset` prop is true. In other
words, nothing will happen if the `from` value is changed during an animation.

---

# The `cancel` prop

When `true`, the `cancel` prop stops the animation of every animated value
owned by the `Controller` that receives it.

The following example never animates, because `cancel` is always true.

```js
useSpring({
  cancel: true,
  from: { x: 0 },
  to: { x: 100 },
})
```

Once the `cancel` prop turns from `true` to `false`, the declared animation
will resume or reset, depending on the given props.

### Delayed updates

The `cancel` prop even prevents delayed updates. 😎

```jsx
const [style, animate] = useSpring(() => ({ x: 0 }))

// Pass this to an element.
const onClick = () => {
  animate({ x: 100, delay: 500 })

  // Prevent the previous update. 🤣
  animate({ cancel: true })
}
```

### Specific keys

To cancel the animation of specific keys, you can pass a single key, an array of
keys, or a `(key: string) => boolean` function.

```js
// Using a single key
cancel: 'x',

// Using an array of keys
cancel: ['x', 'y'],

// Using a function
cancel: key => key !== 'x',
```

The `reset` and `immediate` props support these same types.

---

# Config props

The `config` prop existed in v8.x, but v9.x brings a few improvements.

### Partial updates

The `config` prop can now be partially updated.

```js
const { x } = useSpring({
  from: { x: 0 },
  config: { frequency: 1 },
})
useEffect(() => {
  x.start({ config: { velocity: 0 } })
  x.start({ config: { friction: 20 } })
}, [])
```

### Additions

The following props have been added:

- `frequency?: number`

  The natural frequency (in seconds), which dictates the number of bounces
  per second when no damping exists.

  When defined, `tension` is derived from this, and `friction` is derived
  from `tension` and `damping`.

- `damping?: number`

  The damping ratio, which dictates how the spring slows down.

  Set to `0` to never slow down. Set to `1` to slow down without bouncing.
  Between `0` and `1` is for you to explore.

  Only works when `frequency` is defined. Defaults to `1`.

- `round?: number`

  While animating, round to the nearest multiple of this number.
  The `from` and `to` values are never rounded, as well as any value
  passed to the `set` method of an animated value.

- `bounce?: number`

  When above zero, the spring will bounce instead of overshooting when
  exceeding its goal value.

  Its velocity is multiplied by `-1 + bounce` whenever its current value
  equals or exceeds its goal. For example, setting `bounce` to `0.5` chops
  the velocity in half on each bounce, in addition to any friction.

- `progress?: number`

  When used with `duration`, it decides how far into the easing function
  to start from. The duration itself is unaffected.

  Defaults to `0`, which means "start from the beginning".

  Setting to `1+` makes an immediate animation. Setting to `0.5` means "start
  from the middle of the easing function". Any number `>= 0` and `<= 1` makes
  sense here.

- `restVelocity?: number`

  The smallest velocity before the animation is considered to be "not moving".
  When undefined, `precision` is used instead.

---

# Default props

The `default` prop lets you set the default value of certain props defined in
the same update.

### Declarative updates

For the declarative API, this prop is `true` by default. In the following
example, the `onRest` handler is inherited by every update passed to `animate`,
except when a call has its own `onRest` prop defined.

```jsx
useSpring({
  to: async animate => { ... },
  onRest: () => { ... }
})
```

### Imperative updates

Imperative updates can use `default: true` to set default props. When an
async `to` prop is defined by an imperative update, it will inherit props from
the imperative update like this:

```jsx
useSpring({
  from: { x: 0 },
  to: async animate => {
    // The `config` prop below is inherited by
    // both objects in the `to` array.
    await animate({
      to: [{ x: 100 }, { x: 0 }],
      config: { tension: 100 },
    })
  },
})
```

Default props are inherited while an update is being processed by the internal
diffing algorithm within [`SpringValue#_merge`][merge1].

[merge1]: https://github.com/react-spring/react-spring/blob/a2210466245b09f9686cd3b5172d61f1854a7e38/packages/core/src/SpringValue.ts#L521-L800

For example, both the `ref` prop and the `animate` function will inherit
the default props defined below (in the `useSpring` props function).

```jsx
const ref = useRef()
const [{ x }, animate] = useSpring(() => ({
  x: 0,
  onRest: () => { ... },
  ref,
}))

useEffect(async () => {
  // Animate to 100 with the ref API.
  await ref.current.start({ x: 100 })
  // Animate to 0 with the function API.
  await animate({ x: 0 })
}, [])
```

### Compatible props

In the last example, only the `onRest` prop is inherited, because only some
props can have a default value.

The following props can have default values:

- `config`
- `immediate`
- `onDelayEnd`
- `onProps`
- `onStart`
- `onChange`
- `onRest`

---

# Event props

Props like `onRest` can now be defined on a per-key basis.

```jsx
useSpring({
  from: { x: 0, y: 0 },
  onRest: {
    x: () => console.log('x.onRest'),
    y: () => console.log('y.onRest'),
  },
})
```

### `batchedUpdates` support

Whenever an event prop is called, it's first wrapped with `unstable_batchedUpdates`
(exported by React), which ensures multiple `setState` calls won't cause components
to rerender more times than is necessary. This prevents several tricky edge cases.

### React to finished delays

The `onDelayEnd` prop is called for every non-cancelled update, after its
`delay` is finished. It receives a props object and the affected `SpringValue`
object.

```jsx
useSpring({
  onDelayEnd(props, spring) {
    console.log('onDelayEnd:', props, spring)
  },
})
```

### Inspect your props

The `onProps` prop is called for every update that isn't prevented.

It receives a props object and the affected `SpringValue` object.
It can be useful when debugging an animation.

The `onProps` prop is called immediately after all props have been merged into
the `animation` of the affected `SpringValue` object, but before the first
frame of an animation initiated by the props.

```jsx
useSpring({
  onProps(props, spring) {
    console.log('onProps:', {
      // Inspect the update props.
      props,
      // Inspect the animated value.
      spring,
      // Inspect the animation state.
      ...spring.animation,
    })
  },
})
```

---

# The `skipAnimation` global

When `true`, all animations are finished immediately. The `requestAnimationFrame`
loop is skipped entirely. Any `onRest` callbacks are still invoked.

```js
import { Globals } from 'react-spring'

Globals.assign({ skipAnimation: true })
```

Combine `skipAnimation` with [prefers-reduced-motion] to gracefully disable or
reduce the motion of your animations. The `react-reduce-motion` package [can help with that.](https://github.com/infiniteluke/react-reduce-motion)

[prefers-reduced-motion]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/prefers-reduced-motion

```js
import { Globals } from 'react-spring'
import { useReduceMotion } from 'react-reduce-motion'

const prefersReducedMotion = useReduceMotion()
useEffect(() => {
  Globals.assign({
    skipAnimation: prefersReducedMotion,
  })
}, [prefersReducedMotion])
```

---

# The `SpringValue` class

Imperative APIs are a great way of animating in response to events, without
the need for component state (ie: render-based updates). In this sense, the
`SpringValue` class is a welcome addition to `react-spring`.

It wraps around an `Animated` node, the type of object you passed to animated
components in v8. Now you'll be passing `SpringValue` objects, which manage
their own `Animation` state (separate from any `Controller` object).

### `new SpringValue(props)`

Create an animated value. Any type is valid, but only certain types are
actually animated.

The `props` argument can be either..

- a `to` value
- or a set of `useSpring` props.

Types that cannot be animated are basically `immediate: true` animations.
Such types include: a `boolean`, a `display` string like `"none"`, etc.

The animatable types are:

- `number`s

  ```js
  new SpringValue(0)
  ```

- `string`s with numbers

  ```js
  new SpringValue('0px 10px')
  new SpringValue('rgba(0, 0, 255, 1)')
  ```

- named colors

  ```js
  new SpringValue('red')
  ```

- and arrays of the preceding types

  ```js
  new SpringValue([0, '1em'])
  ```

## Methods

### `get(): T`

Get the current value.

```js
const value = spring.get()
```

### `set(value): this`

Set the current value, replace the `goal` value, and stop animating.

```js
spring.set(1)
```

### `update(props): this`

Add an update to the `queue` array. All updates in the `queue` are
applied at the same time.

```js
const delays = [0, 100, 300]
for (const delay of delays) {
  spring.update({ x: delay })
}
spring.start()
```

⚠️ This method may be deprecated soon.

### `start(): Promise`

Process the `queue` array and replace it with an empty array.

The returned `Promise` resolves after every animation triggered by
the `queue` array has either finished or been cancelled.

```js
await spring.start()
```

The awaited value is an `AnimationResult` object.

The `AnimationResult` type has the following properties:

- `value: T`
- `spring: SpringValue`
- `finished?: boolean`
- `cancelled?: boolean`

### `start(props): Promise`

Process the given `props` object.

The returned promise is resolved after the animation is finished or cancelled.
If a `start` call triggers no animation, the promise resolves immediately.

```js
await spring.start({ from: 0, to: 1 })
```

### `start(queue): Promise`

Process the given array of updates.

The returned promise resolves to an `AnimationResult` object whose:

- `finished` property is only `true` when every animation triggered by
  the `queue` was finished before being stopped or cancelled.

- `cancelled` property is only `false` when all updates in the `queue` were
  never cancelled.

```js
// prettier-ignore
await spring.start([
  { from: 0 },
  { to: 10 },
  { to: 20, delay: 1000 },
])
```

### `finish(): this`

Jump to the goal value immediately.

The `onStart` prop is called whenever `finish` is called before the first
frame. The `onRest` prop is called with `finished: true` as expected.

```js
spring.finish()
```

### `finish(value): this`

Jump to the given value immediately, and call the `onStart` and `onRest`
props the same way `.finish()` does.

```js
spring.finish(100)
```

Fluid values (eg: other `SpringValue` objects) can also be passed.

### `stop(): this`

Stop animating and cancel any delayed updates.

The `goal` value is replaced with the current value.

```js
spring.stop()
```

### `reset(): this`

Restart the animation using its cached `from` and `to` values.

```js
spring.reset()
```

Equivalent to a `.start({ reset: true })` call.

### `advance(dt: number): boolean`

Advance the current animation by the given `dt` (in milliseconds).

_You will probably never call this._

```js
// Advance a single frame.
spring.advance(1000 / 60)
```

### `is(phase: string): void`

Check for the given phase.

```jsx
if (spring.is('PAUSED')) {
  return
}
```

Valid phases include:

- `CREATED` The spring has never animated since being created.
- `IDLE` The spring is done animating.
- `ACTIVE` The spring is animating.
- `PAUSED` The spring was animating but is now paused.
- `DISPOSED` The spring can no longer animate.

## Properties

### `key?: string`

The name given to the `SpringValue` object by its owner.

For `Controller` objects, the `key` of each `SpringValue` is the property name
from either the `to` or `from` object prop.

When defined, the `to` prop can be an object with this `key` defined as
a property.

```js
spring.key = 'foo'
spring.start({ to: { foo: '180deg' } })
```

### `get idle(): boolean`

Returns `true` when both:

- the current phase is _anything but_ `ACTIVE`
- no async `to` prop is active

Put simply, it's `true` when not animating.

### `get goal(): T`

The end value of the current animation.

### `get velocity(): number | number[]`

The velocity of the current animation.

### `animation: Animation`

The animation descriptor.

### `queue?: SpringUpdate<T>[]`

The queue of pending updates.

Call `.start()` to flush the queue.
