src/pages/common/configs.mdx, before:

import { CodeBlock } from '../../components/CodeBlock'

# Configs

Spring are configurable and can be tuned. If you want to adjust these settings, you should provide a `config` property to `useSpring`:

```js
useSpring({ config: { duration: 250 }, ... })
```

Since `v9` the `config` prop can now be partially updated:

```jsx
const { x } = useSpring({
  from: { x: 0 },
  config: { frequency: 1 },
})
useEffect(() => {
  x.start({ config: { velocity: 0 } })
  x.start({ config: { friction: 20 } })
}, [])
```

And we've added the following properties `frequency`, `dampening`, `round`, `bounce`, `progress` & `restVelocity`.

| Property     | Default   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| ------------ | --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| mass         | 1         | spring mass                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| tension      | 170       | spring energetic load                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| friction     | 26        | spring resistence                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| clamp        | false     | when true, stops the spring once it overshoots its boundaries                                                                                                                                                     |
| precision    | 0.01      | precision                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| velocity     | 0         | initial velocity                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| easing       | t => t    | linear by default, you can use any easing you want, for instance d3-ease                                                                                                                                          |
| damping      | 1         | The damping ratio, which dictates how the spring slows down. Only works when `frequency` is defined. Defaults to `1`.                                                                                             |
| progress     | 0         | When used with `duration`, it decides how far into the easing function to start from. The duration itself is unaffected.                                                                                          |
| duration     | undefined | if > than 0 will switch to a duration-based animation instead of spring physics, value should be indicated in milliseconds (e.g. `duration: 250` for a duration of 250ms)                                         |
| frequency    | undefined | The natural frequency (in seconds), which dictates the number of bounces per second when no damping exists. When defined, `tension` is derived from this, and `friction` is derived from `tension` and `damping`. |
| round        | undefined | While animating, round to the nearest multiple of this number. The `from` and `to` values are never rounded, as well as any value passed to the `set` method of an animated value.                                |
| bounce       | undefined | When above zero, the spring will bounce instead of overshooting when exceeding its goal value.                                                                                                                    |
| restVelocity | undefined | The smallest velocity before the animation is considered to be "not moving". When undefined, `precision` is used instead.                                                                                         |

<CodeBlock
  live
  url="https://codesandbox.io/embed/flamboyant-agnesi-x1vjb?fontsize=14&hidenavigation=1&theme=dark&view=preview&hidedevtools=1&hidenavigation=1"
/>

## Presets

There are also a couple of generic presets that will cover some common ground.

```jsx
import { ..., config } from 'react-spring'

useSpring({ ..., config: config.default })
```

| Property        | Value                                    |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| config.default  | { mass: 1, tension: 170, friction: 26 }  |
| config.gentle   | { mass: 1, tension: 120, friction: 14 }  |
| config.wobbly   | { mass: 1, tension: 180, friction: 12 }  |
| config.stiff    | { mass: 1, tension: 210, friction: 20 }  |
| config.slow     | { mass: 1, tension: 280, friction: 60 }  |
| config.molasses | { mass: 1, tension: 280, friction: 120 } |

<CodeBlock
  live
  url="https://codesandbox.io/embed/react-spring-preset-configs-kdv7r?fontsize=14&hidenavigation=1&theme=dark&view=preview&hidedevtools=1&hidenavigation=1"
/>

Commit message:

feat: add decay to config documentation

src/pages/common/configs.mdx, after:

import { CodeBlock } from '../../components/CodeBlock'

# Configs

Spring are configurable and can be tuned. If you want to adjust these settings, you should provide a `config` property to `useSpring`:

```js
useSpring({ config: { duration: 250 }, ... })
```

Since `v9` the `config` prop can now be partially updated:

```jsx
const { x } = useSpring({
  from: { x: 0 },
  config: { frequency: 1 },
})
useEffect(() => {
  x.start({ config: { velocity: 0 } })
  x.start({ config: { friction: 20 } })
}, [])
```

And we've added the following properties `frequency`, `dampening`, `round`, `bounce`, `progress` & `restVelocity`.

| Property     | Default   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| ------------ | --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| mass         | 1         | spring mass                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| tension      | 170       | spring energetic load                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| friction     | 26        | spring resistence                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| clamp        | false     | when true, stops the spring once it overshoots its boundaries                                                                                                                                                     |
| precision    | 0.01      | precision                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| velocity     | 0         | initial velocity                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| easing       | t => t    | linear by default, you can use any easing you want, for instance d3-ease                                                                                                                                          |
| damping      | 1         | The damping ratio, which dictates how the spring slows down. Only works when `frequency` is defined. Defaults to `1`.                                                                                             |
| progress     | 0         | When used with `duration`, it decides how far into the easing function to start from. The duration itself is unaffected.                                                                                          |
| duration     | undefined | if > than 0 will switch to a duration-based animation instead of spring physics, value should be indicated in milliseconds (e.g. `duration: 250` for a duration of 250ms)                                         |
| decay        | undefined | `number` of decay rate. If passed `true` defaults to 0.998                                                                                                                                                        |
| frequency    | undefined | The natural frequency (in seconds), which dictates the number of bounces per second when no damping exists. When defined, `tension` is derived from this, and `friction` is derived from `tension` and `damping`. |
| round        | undefined | While animating, round to the nearest multiple of this number. The `from` and `to` values are never rounded, as well as any value passed to the `set` method of an animated value.                                |
| bounce       | undefined | When above zero, the spring will bounce instead of overshooting when exceeding its goal value.                                                                                                                    |
| restVelocity | undefined | The smallest velocity before the animation is considered to be "not moving". When undefined, `precision` is used instead.                                                                                         |

<CodeBlock
  live
  url="https://codesandbox.io/embed/flamboyant-agnesi-x1vjb?fontsize=14&hidenavigation=1&theme=dark&view=preview&hidedevtools=1&hidenavigation=1"
/>

## Presets

There are also a couple of generic presets that will cover some common ground.

```jsx
import { ..., config } from 'react-spring'

useSpring({ ..., config: config.default })
```

| Property        | Value                                    |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| config.default  | { mass: 1, tension: 170, friction: 26 }  |
| config.gentle   | { mass: 1, tension: 120, friction: 14 }  |
| config.wobbly   | { mass: 1, tension: 180, friction: 12 }  |
| config.stiff    | { mass: 1, tension: 210, friction: 20 }  |
| config.slow     | { mass: 1, tension: 280, friction: 60 }  |
| config.molasses | { mass: 1, tension: 280, friction: 120 } |

<CodeBlock
  live
  url="https://codesandbox.io/embed/react-spring-preset-configs-kdv7r?fontsize=14&hidenavigation=1&theme=dark&view=preview&hidedevtools=1&hidenavigation=1"
/>
