src/pages/md/basics-2.md, before:

## Up-front interpolation

Springs take pretty much everything, they don't just handle numbers.

- Colors (names, rgb, rgba, hsl, hsla, gradients)
- Absolute lengths (cm, mm, in, px, pt, pc)
- Relative lengths (em, ex, ch, rem, vw, vh, vmin, vmax, %)
- Angles (deg, rad, grad, turn)
- Flex and grid units (fr, etc)
- All HTML attributes
- SVG paths (as long as the number of points matches, otherwise use [custom interpolation](https://codesandbox.io/embed/lwpkp46om))
- Arrays
- String patterns (transform, border, boxShadow, etc)
- Non-animatable string values (visibility, pointerEvents, etc)
- ScrollTop/scrollLeft

```jsx
const props = useSpring({
  vector: [0, 10, 30],
  display: 'block',
  padding: 20,
  background: 'linear-gradient(to right, #009fff, #ec2f4b)',
  transform: 'translate3d(0px,0,0) scale(1) rotateX(0deg)',
  boxShadow: '0px 10px 20px 0px rgba(0,0,0,0.4)',
  borderBottom: '10px solid #2D3747',
  shape: 'M20,20 L20,380 L380,380 L380,20 L20,20 Z',
  textShadow: '0px 5px 15px rgba(255,255,255,0.5)'
})
```

## View interpolation

In cases where you need to clamp or extrapolate, each animated value can `interpolate` inside the view, which is a powerful tool to have. The interpolate function either takes a function or an object which forms a range. Interpolations can also form chains which allows you to route one calculation into another or reuse them. [Look into the shared-api](/docs/hooks/api) for an object description.

You may wonder why you wouldn't always interpolate inside of the spring. View interpolation can be a little faster, and it takes up less space.

```jsx
import {useSpring, animated, interpolate} from 'react-spring'

const {o, xyz, color} = useSpring({
  from: {o: 0, xyz: [0, 0, 0], color: 'red'},
  o: 1,
  xyz: [10, 20, 5],
  color: 'green'
})

return (
  <animated.div
    style={{
      // If you can, use plain animated values like always, ...
      // You would do that in all cases where values "just fit"
      color,
      // Unless you need to interpolate them
      background: o.interpolate(o => `rgba(210, 57, 77, ${o})`),
      // Which works with arrays as well
      transform: xyz.interpolate((x, y, z) => `translate3d(${x}px, ${y}px, ${z}px)`),
      // If you want to combine multiple values use the "interpolate" helper
      border: interpolate([o, color], (o, c) => `${o * 10}px solid ${c}`),
      // You can also form ranges, even chain multiple interpolations
      padding: o.interpolate({range: [0, 0.5, 1], output: [0, 0, 10]}).interpolate(o => `${o}%`),
      // Interpolating strings (like up-front) through ranges is allowed ...
      borderColor: o.interpolate({range: [0, 1], output: ['red', '#ffaabb']}),
      // There's also a shortcut for plain, optionless ranges ...
      opacity: o.interpolate([0.1, 0.2, 0.6, 1], [1, 0.1, 0.5, 1])
    }}
  >
    {o.interpolate(n => n.toFixed(2)) /* innerText interpolation ... */}
  </animated.div>
)
```

## Additional notes

### Animating "auto"

Hooks differ from renderprops in that they don't know the view. Therefore handling "auto" is out of scope of the hooks api. This may sound like a regression, but consider that measuring auto with hooks is easier than ever before, and it makes patterns possible that were very hard to realize before, for [instance nesting auto content](https://twitter.com/0xca0a/status/1094683974679621633). Look for [react-resize-aware](https://github.com/FezVrasta/react-resize-aware), [react-measure](https://github.com/souporserious/react-measure), etc.

```jsx
const [bind, {height}] = useMeasure()
const props = useSpring({height})
return (
  <animated.div style={{overflow: 'hidden', ...props}}>
    <div {...bind}>content</div>
  </animated.div>
)
```

### Emulating css-keyframes

Sometimes you want to go through a series of states, like css keyframes, you can use interpolations for this.

```jsx
/*
0 % { transform: scale(1); }
25 % { transform: scale(.97); }
35 % { transform: scale(.9); }
45 % { transform: scale(1.1); }
55 % { transform: scale(.9); }
65 % { transform: scale(1.1); }
75 % { transform: scale(1.03); }
100 % { transform: scale(1); }
`*/

const props = useSpring({x: state ? 1 : 0})
return (
  <animated.div
    style={{
      transform: props.x
        .interpolate({
          range: [0, 0.25, 0.35, 0.45, 0.55, 0.65, 0.75, 1],
          output: [1, 0.97, 0.9, 1.1, 0.9, 1.1, 1.03, 1]
        })
        .interpolate(x => `scale(${x})`)
    }}
  />
)
```

Commit message:

docs: add note for  basic

src/pages/md/basics-2.md, after:

## Up-front interpolation

Springs take pretty much everything, they don't just handle numbers.

- Colors (names, rgb, rgba, hsl, hsla, gradients)
- Absolute lengths (cm, mm, in, px, pt, pc)
- Relative lengths (em, ex, ch, rem, vw, vh, vmin, vmax, %)
- Angles (deg, rad, grad, turn)
- Flex and grid units (fr, etc)
- All HTML attributes
- SVG paths (as long as the number of points matches, otherwise use [custom interpolation](https://codesandbox.io/embed/lwpkp46om))
- Arrays
- String patterns (transform, border, boxShadow, etc)
- Non-animatable string values (visibility, pointerEvents, etc)
- ScrollTop/scrollLeft

```jsx
const props = useSpring({
  vector: [0, 10, 30],
  display: 'block',
  padding: 20,
  background: 'linear-gradient(to right, #009fff, #ec2f4b)',
  // Note: you should use 0px, not translate3d(0,0,0).
  // Or react-spring will not handle it.
  transform: 'translate3d(0px,0,0) scale(1) rotateX(0deg)',
  boxShadow: '0px 10px 20px 0px rgba(0,0,0,0.4)',
  borderBottom: '10px solid #2D3747',
  shape: 'M20,20 L20,380 L380,380 L380,20 L20,20 Z',
  textShadow: '0px 5px 15px rgba(255,255,255,0.5)'
})
```

## View interpolation

In cases where you need to clamp or extrapolate, each animated value can `interpolate` inside the view, which is a powerful tool to have. The interpolate function either takes a function or an object which forms a range. Interpolations can also form chains which allows you to route one calculation into another or reuse them. [Look into the shared-api](/docs/hooks/api) for an object description.

You may wonder why you wouldn't always interpolate inside of the spring. View interpolation can be a little faster, and it takes up less space.

```jsx
import {useSpring, animated, interpolate} from 'react-spring'

const {o, xyz, color} = useSpring({
  from: {o: 0, xyz: [0, 0, 0], color: 'red'},
  o: 1,
  xyz: [10, 20, 5],
  color: 'green'
})

return (
  <animated.div
    style={{
      // If you can, use plain animated values like always, ...
      // You would do that in all cases where values "just fit"
      color,
      // Unless you need to interpolate them
      background: o.interpolate(o => `rgba(210, 57, 77, ${o})`),
      // Which works with arrays as well
      transform: xyz.interpolate((x, y, z) => `translate3d(${x}px, ${y}px, ${z}px)`),
      // If you want to combine multiple values use the "interpolate" helper
      border: interpolate([o, color], (o, c) => `${o * 10}px solid ${c}`),
      // You can also form ranges, even chain multiple interpolations
      padding: o.interpolate({range: [0, 0.5, 1], output: [0, 0, 10]}).interpolate(o => `${o}%`),
      // Interpolating strings (like up-front) through ranges is allowed ...
      borderColor: o.interpolate({range: [0, 1], output: ['red', '#ffaabb']}),
      // There's also a shortcut for plain, optionless ranges ...
      opacity: o.interpolate([0.1, 0.2, 0.6, 1], [1, 0.1, 0.5, 1])
    }}
  >
    {o.interpolate(n => n.toFixed(2)) /* innerText interpolation ... */}
  </animated.div>
)
```

## Additional notes

### Animating "auto"

Hooks differ from renderprops in that they don't know the view. Therefore handling "auto" is out of scope of the hooks api. This may sound like a regression, but consider that measuring auto with hooks is easier than ever before, and it makes patterns possible that were very hard to realize before, for [instance nesting auto content](https://twitter.com/0xca0a/status/1094683974679621633). Look for [react-resize-aware](https://github.com/FezVrasta/react-resize-aware), [react-measure](https://github.com/souporserious/react-measure), etc.

```jsx
const [bind, {height}] = useMeasure()
const props = useSpring({height})
return (
  <animated.div style={{overflow: 'hidden', ...props}}>
    <div {...bind}>content</div>
  </animated.div>
)
```

### Emulating css-keyframes

Sometimes you want to go through a series of states, like css keyframes, you can use interpolations for this.

```jsx
/*
0 % { transform: scale(1); }
25 % { transform: scale(.97); }
35 % { transform: scale(.9); }
45 % { transform: scale(1.1); }
55 % { transform: scale(.9); }
65 % { transform: scale(1.1); }
75 % { transform: scale(1.03); }
100 % { transform: scale(1); }
`*/

const props = useSpring({x: state ? 1 : 0})
return (
  <animated.div
    style={{
      transform: props.x
        .interpolate({
          range: [0, 0.25, 0.35, 0.45, 0.55, 0.65, 0.75, 1],
          output: [1, 0.97, 0.9, 1.1, 0.9, 1.1, 1.03, 1]
        })
        .interpolate(x => `scale(${x})`)
    }}
  />
)
```
